And the final, final boss,
as we like to call them, right?
The developer team.
So I view the developer team, the devs,
they are the final boss,
gatekeeping, right?
If you're meeting them, it's a good thing,
but it's gonna be a stressful
thing at the same time, al right?
Now, here is one of those things where
if you've done your portfolio right,
you have solved 50% of your problem.
If you've done your portfolio right,
because you want a portfolio that is
what I like to call front loaded.
As then you want to answer so
many questions about yourself
prior to them meeting you.
They don't have any questions asking or
you wanna have them.
They're thinking about the questions to
ask you about the thing that you already
know, right?
So that's how you want to be able to,
it's almost like, well,
it's not almost like,
it's exactly like PSYOPS.
It's how we do in the military,
is what psychological operations.
Is that we want the user, the person
that we're speaking to, to ask us or
talk to us about the things
that we're already experts in.
And then we may have more
expertise to them, right?
So we're guiding, we're using our
resources, such as our portfolio and
our resume and the work that we've done
to guide them towards that direction.
So that builds more interest in us and
makes that as the interview easier for
us, right?
So that is what you have to do
with your developer team, right?
Such things like we've spoken earlier,
you wanna talk as if you're
already on the team.
The rule of thumb that I always use
with my troops is that you want
to pass what I like to call The 5PM rule.
Which means you wanna be the person
that after 5PM on Friday they do not
wanna throw you out of a window.
They don't want to like
quickly get your new computer.
Do they just send you and like revoke
your access after 5PM on a Friday, right?
That's your goal.
How do we do this?
We answer our questions clearly, we make
sure we study the resources, study for
the interview.
We make sure that we ask before the
interview like who's all on the dev team.
So that way you can research them because
you may have something that you find
interesting on them.
So you can have these conversations.
You want them to feel as if
you're already on dev team.
I use a lot of wheeze,
I use a lot of how we're gonna do this,
how I would do this with you.
I'm always trying to put
myself in a position,
is like I am already on the other
side of the table with you.
And I always try to keep
the conversation moving in light,
because you want them laughing.
The worst thing you can have
is an interview with the dev
team that goes the time allotted.
The more you go over,
the better your chances of getting hired,
the more laughter there is,
the better chance to get hired.
These are just rules that I have seen
that work like they don't make sense.
But remember,
you're still dealing with people, and
people in the end like to work
with people that they like, right?
So they wanna know that you can do the
job, but they also wanna know I'm gonna be
spending a substantial amount of time from
my dogs, my wife and my kids, from you.
And I want to know that that's
going to not make me want to smack
myself with my MacBook Pro, right?
Because these things are expensive, and
you know health care in
America is outrageous.
So just, let me know in advance like how
are we going to work together, right?
So that's with the developer teams,
Mark I saw you had your hand raised?
>> Yeah, someone just commented they think
Fang companies are still looking for
fundamentals and foundation and
software development like OP
solid big O donation algorithms and
systems design.
>> I can answer that, that is,
firstly when it comes to Fang
organizations, I mean it's very weird
to say Fang now because stock
market has to clear what Fang did.
That's a common understanding,
they're not looking for
the just core fundamentals anymore.
Right now in the era of tech we're in,
it's more rounded.
It's more of like, think of it as like
a specialization of skill, right?
So we're talking about cloud computing.
We're talking about AI,
we're talking about DevOps,
we're talking about the specialized units,
right?
As opposed to computer science the things,
I have never in my eight years
of programming had to use or
been asked a question for
any of these LLPs things of that.
I have been asked questions
in regards to patterns,
because patterns help you
learn other languages faster.
And which is why I always recommend
learning patterns of a language.
I think there's a young woman, Lydia, she
just did a JavaScript patterns course for
you
>> Lydia.
>> Lydia, yeah, so I definitely recommend
that class because patterns will
help you switch from
language to language faster.
Because once you understand the pattern,
and the why this code is doing this,
you'll understand how
to do the thing better.
Now, am I saying that data structures and
Algos are unnecessary?
No, what I'm saying is that they're not,
my Microsoft interview no one asked me one
question on data structures and algos.
>> Yeah, it really depends on
the role because when I was
interviewing a lot in
the JavaScript engineering or
like the closer you get to
the word engineering in the title.
>> Yes.
>> You are absolutely gonna need
to know that stuff.
>> Yes, closer you get to the engineering
part, that deep level stuff, you will.
But I guess the closer you get to
underneath the API, or the closer you get
to building the API and stuff is where
they start asking these questions.
Yeah, that's a good analogy, or
a good way to look at it, right?
Is, hey, the closer you get to under,
very very under the hood,
like that's the more this stuff matters.
Like yeah, types of things that they
are gonna be looking at for you, right?
So I put those in the readme.
So the technical component of course,
that's what they're gonna be looking for,
right?
Culture fit assessment,
like I said, 5PM rule.
They wanna make sure that hey, guess what?
I don't want to throw you out of the
office if I don't wanna call the doorman,
I'm like, just America, doorman.
Europeans do [INAUDIBLE] or they want
to evaluate your projects, right?
This is where you know your portfolio and
making sure it's a Picasso size.
Is like making it shine, al right?
You want to ensure that even if you start
playing, you have the information needed
to be able to showcase how you think
of things, to why you think of things.
The way that you're going to, where
you're going with your thought processes,
things like that.
And of course, portfolio review,
where they're gonna be reviewing your
projects, get hubs, all this stuff, yes?
>> I'm sure you're gonna get
into it more later, but online,
Michael was asking,
are there any signals of resume?
Are there any things that we should
avoid putting on a resume that
makes us look like a not a fit or
too experienced, inexperienced?
>> I will definitely put,
I'll get more into that, but
the number one red flag I am seeing
is the term full stack developer.
That has got a negative
connotation in the industry.
So you've put web developer, software
engineer, front engineer, back engineer,
what are you exactly trying to do,
especially as a junior,
you should be doing.
Because they are people like okay,
so your junior but
you understand the intricacies
of the entire stack?
That doesn't make any sense, right?
So that's the number one red flag,
keyword that we are seeing.
>> Yeah, I will echo that.
We're hiring at front of masters, and we
see that all the time, as people generally
in the the beginner couple of years put
full stack on the resume all the time.
And it's laughable, it's like, yes, okay,
you can spin up a node server or whatever.
Like you use Next.js, but that doesn't
make you a full stack developer.
>> Yes, the harsh reality is, I mean,
just because you can put a website on
the web does not make you
a full stack just yet.
Because there's a lot of things in
the middle when it comes to being
a full stack.
We're talking about security, we're
talking about the rules on front end and
back end are completely different.
Like picking the rules are depending
on what part of front end, or
what part of back end you
are completely different, yes?
>> In other words, like people like could
realistically call themselves fools,
that are almost like seniors at these
teams you were just talking about, people.
[CROSSTALK]
>> I will say two,
three years of experience at least.
>> If you wanna see,
if you're actually a full stack,
go to front of
masters.com/learn/full stack.
And tell me if you actually
know all of those things.
[LAUGH]
>> So I want you all to get paid and
get jobs.
And one of the first things you need to do
is drop that full stack off your resume.
Because especially as an entry level,
that kind of opens you up for
a lot higher scrutiny versus thinking
of yourself as, you know what,
this is I'm really strong
in a part of this,
because this is what I
initially caught my focus.
Which is what I'm happy about
most of the people in this room,
is that you know you're not talking in
the format of full stack engineers.
You're like, I want front-end,
I'm UI, I'm back in.
I want to do DevOps,
a new cloud computing.
You're looking at,
secularizing your skills first and
then you're gonna expand as you get more
experienced in the your career stacks.
Which is the smartest thing to do, right?
Trying to learn everything
at once is insane.
Trying to learn a thing that
you know follow the 3AM rule.
Which for me is, if whatever it is at
three o'clock in the morning that they
call me that I have to be on call to fix,
that's the thing I want to learn, right?
So follow that rule and
you'll be okay, yes, Mark.
>> Yeah, I definitely agree with that.
It's almost like a spearhead,
it's like these are the few
skills I'm the strongest at.
And I'm interested in all these
other things around it, and
that's gonna signal to the employer
much better than saying, no,
I'm already at this level
of the the entire stack.
>> Yeah.
>> I know I'm really,
I'm strong in this area, and
I'm looking to expand my skills in
these two, three, four or five areas.
>> Exactly, you don't want to come like,
especially on dev teams
because you're gonna
have somebody on the dev
team that's probably
gonna be equal to what
your true strength is.
And then other people on the developer
team that's going It's gonna be able to
walk circles around you on
the things you're not strong on.
So you wanna focus on your strengths and
be able to use that as your
biggest selling point.
But if you say that you're, you put
a bunch of stuff on your resume and
your LinkedIn that you're not strong on,
you've opened,
you create an opening in your game that is
gonna allow someone to ask questions
that you're not prepared for, right?
So that the aim of this is to make sure
that we have we put all the odds on our
side, right?
Which is why we don't use full stack,
especially as a junior entry.
You have less than a year's experience.
It's just pretty, it's a pretty hard pill
to swallow that you're a full stack.
And I'm not being,
like it's I'm not being mean about it,
I want you to win, this is a safe space.
Like, don't ask me don't
cancel me on Twitter.
Like, I mean, I don't even use
Twitter like that anymore.
So, like, go ahead and
like do that if you want.
Yeah, what's up, man?
>> So I have a question.
We were talking about these three
users and kind of three people that
you need to convince to give you
the go ahead in order to get a job.
>> Yeah.
>> I notice frequently there's kind of
a division between like the AI/HR people
where they have a set list of
requirements they're looking to hire for,
they use that to filter people?
And then you got the dev team,
who have the real world actual requirement
Tournaments for
what you'd be doing in the day to day.
How do you get to the second groups that
way you know what to talk about when
oftentimes what you're seeing online with
these applications, and you know what's
available like about the job isn't really
what the people are actually doing.
A good chunk of the time,
>> One thing I have done with my troops,
so I've instructed my troops to do that
as really helped is that we go and
we enter informational interviews.
You're gonna talk about this
more in the networking part, but
we'll actually research that company on
LinkedIn before we do the application.
And we'll see if there's anyone in any of
the networks within our internal network,
that is connected to somebody
at their company, and
see if we can get an informational
interview about this particular job.
And if we can go get that,
we go one step further and
try to get the recommendation for this
particular job as well for the student.
So that's one thing that I
definitely recommend before you.
I never recommend doing that whole
like blind apply apply apply,
fast apply like that is your
worst adversary, right?
You're applying before
you're getting intel.
You can't go in a battlefield, you
always get the intel first before you go
in there, because that's how
you end up in ambush, right?
And we are not doing that, so
what we do is that we gather
intelligence to formulate a plan and
then we attack, right?
So that's how we approach
every interview process,
from the application phase
to getting the job phase.
I am always researching, I'm like,
you know what I'm human, I'm Batman,
not Superman, like, well, they call me
Captain America, but he gets shot too.
So, [LAUGH] in the end,
I need to plan stuff before I execute,
because when I fail to plan,
I plan to fail, right?
>> Any question on like the hiring
the developer's conversation?
>> Yeah.
>> So under the understand the tech stack
part, it mentions like talk
about experience if you have it.
Like how would have you gotten past the
ATS section of the process without saying
that you have experience with it?
>> Well so I think someone he
picks up his question like how
the two can like diverge.
By the time you get to the developer, the
team that developed dev team, they can be
talking about a totally different problem
they're gonna be working on, right?
I've been in that chair in which I'm
talking about the job that I'm looking at
is one stack, but
they're talking about switching over
to another stack in the interview.
And then I'm like, I have experience in
that I've already been working on that.
Let me show you something that
the architecture of how I was using these
micro services of these three separate
front ends to be able to work
in unison with this API layer.
So let me show you how I would do that,
right?
And that helped me get the job already,
because they had the offer letter
before I was out the door, right?
So that's how that happened,
because you never,
like I said, you really,
the companies halfling.
I know that like the person doing the job
break is somebody who talk to somebody,
who talked to somebody, who talked to
somebody that hasn't touched the code base
in like seven years, and
they have no idea what's going on.
And then by the time you get to
the developers there was like, hey,
let me show you what we're
really talking about.
And then you get the job.
And then they're like,
everything that they told you was a lie.
This is what's going on.
Enjoy, like,
enjoy this place is hey, like FYI.
So like, I've been on jobs where like,
hey, guess what we're doing C sharp.
That wasn't in my interview at all,
like why are we doing C sharp?
[LAUGH] I don't get it, like I guess I'm
here now, so we're gonna C sharp together.
So it's just about being adaptive, right?
And you know use those opportunities,
yes, Mark?
>> What about certifications?
Can that help you?
>> I was gonna talk about
that in the resume.
>> Well let's hold the thought,
that must have skipped.
>> Yeah.
>> Let's get into it, love all your
questions, there's another one about
getting a job in the US if you're abroad,
using US sponsorship.
I don't know if you're
gonna get into that.
>> No, I'm not, but
I wasn't gonna get into that, but
I can answer that question now.
>> Okay, why don't you just
answer it quick, and then.
>> Al right, what's the question?
>> Just getting a job in the US if
you're abroad and you need a visa?
[CROSSTALK]
>> Al right, so
you have to firstly look for the jobs
that are willing to do visa sponsorships.
They usually explicitly say if they are or
they aren't, that's first one.
Secondly, you need to make sure
you get those requirements and
they tend to be more of
the collegiate route, right?
So if you're not gonna college for
computer science that's
gonna be very difficult or
a type of very strong mathematics
based like degree program.
Very difficult to get into those type
of programs, those type of jobs, but
they're not impossible.
So I definitely, I just recommend,
doing your research on that.
On each job, each industry,
do internships, informational.
If that's your goal,
you need to make sure you need to stack
the odds on your side for
the visa, visa sponsorship jobs.
>> There was, I would say in
our discord and on Instagram,
there's some threads around
somebody who was from Mexico and
they got a job at Google using in front
of masters was their main resource so.
>> That's dope
>> Yeah, so
you might want to reach out
on our discord as well.
>> I haven't been on discord in so
long, I'm an old person, man.
I don't be on these discords and
all these other do-thingies and stuff.
I have a TikTok just for the kids,
man [LAUGH] I'm old sarge,
that's who I am.